You want to get sound that you're playing back on your PC into vvvv via ((node:AudioIn (Devices))). Simply select the ''Stereo Mix'' (sometimes called ''Rec. Playback'' or similar) option on its ((pin:Driver)). If there is no such option try the following to make the option available in vvvv:

!!Windows Vista/7/8
* Make sure you have installed correct drivers for your sound card. After having done so restart vvvv and see if the option is now available, if not:
* Check the Recording settings under: Control Panel > Sound > Recording Tab. Try to right click on empty space and check if Disabled / Disconnected Devices are visible. There you may see disabled devices. Rightclick and enable them, then restart vvvv to see if the option is now available.

::{img src = "SoundRecordingSettings.png" title = "Sound Recording Settings"}::

^note:
If there are still no other devices than a Microphone under Recording Tab, then the only way to get a sound back from the sound card is to grab a cable and physically connect line-out and line-in (if you have one) on your machine.

If this doesn't work for you as well you'll need a different soundcard to get this going. You can still play audio files though with ((node:FileStream (DShow9))), ((node:FileStream (Bass))), ((node:WavePlayer (DShow9))) and the likes.
^

!!Windows XP
Create a ((node:AudioRecordSelector (System))) node. 
* If it is red: you don't seem to have a soundcard or no driver installed for it.
* If it is not red: check the ((pin:Device)) to see if there are some devices available, choose 'Stereo Mix'.

Here is how it looks like:
{img src = "AudioIn-test-screen.jpg" title = "AudioRecordSelector"} 