---
uid: ab13f07c-9eca-4845-8b83-80ba59e45bfd
---

# TextureFX Specification
TextureFX is essentially vvvvs answer to <a href="http://freeframe.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/freeframe/trunk/docs/specification.html" class="extURL" target="_blank">freeframeGL</a>, i.e. a specification for modules that do GPU-based texture-generation, -manipulation and -analyis. The idea was triggered by <span class="user"><a href="https://vvvv.org/users/karistouf" class="extURL" target="_blank">karistouf</a></span> in his thread with the almost poetic title <a href="https://discourse.vvvv.org/t/pure-image-treatment-question-wich-evolution-for-vvvv" class="extURL forum" target="_blank">Pure image treatment question: wich evolution for vvvv</a> and implementation is expertly lead by <span class="user"><a href="https://vvvv.org/users/unc" class="extURL" target="_blank">unc</a></span>. The whole series of modules/effects is now part of the [Addonpack](xref:e1554948-8a15-4e39-8289-59216c388376).  

# TextureFX Specification 1.0
The modules are organized in the following categories using the mentioned in- and outputs:  

## EX9.Texture
Misc modules like "Resize" and "Preview" that are very general to the EX9.Texture category.  

## EX9.Texture Source
Modules returning a texture generated by the given input parameters.  
* Any number of optional input parameters  
* One texture output named <span class="pin">Output</span>  

## EX9.Texture Filter
Modules transforming the input texture by the given input parameters.  
* One texture input named <span class="pin">Input</span>  
* An optional texture input named <span class="pin">Control</span> for a per-pixel parameter  
* Any number of optional input parameters  
* One texture output named <span class="pin">Output</span>  

## EX9.Texture Mixer
Modules mixing/blending together/fading between multiple input textures.  
* Multiple texture inputs named <span class="pin">Input 1</span>, <span class="pin">Input 2</span>,...  
* A texture input named <span class="pin">Control</span> for a per-pixel parameter  
* An input parameter called <span class="pin">Blend</span> that controls the fading between multiple textures.   
* One texture output named <span class="pin">Output</span>  

## EX9.Texture Join
Modules taking different texture channels and combining them to one output texture.  
* Multiple texture inputs named e.g. like <span class="pin">Red</span>, <span class="pin">Green</span>,...  
* One texture output named <span class="pin">Output</span>  

## EX9.Texture Split
Modules splitting textures up into individual channels.  
* One texture input named <span class="pin">Input</span>  
* Multiple texture outputs named e.g. like <span class="pin">Red</span>, <span class="pin">Green</span>,...  

## EX9.Texture Analysis
Modules returning analysis data from a given input texture, like trackers,...  
* One texture input named <span class="pin">Input</span>  
* Any number of optional input parameters  
* At least one output parameter  

---  
Latest version of the pack on github:  
<a href="https://github.com/vvvv/vvvv-sdk/tree/develop/vvvv45/addonpack/lib/nodes/modules/TextureFX" class="extURL" target="_blank">https://github.com/vvvv/vvvv-sdk/tree/develop/vvvv45/addonpack/lib/nodes/modules/TextureFX</a>