!FreeFrame plugins
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node:ARTK+ (FreeFrame DShow9)))
((node:CamShiftTracker (FreeFrame DShow9))) 
((node:ColorTracker (FreeFrame DShow9)))
((node:Contour (FreeFrame DShow9)))
((node:DetectObject (FreeFrame DShow9)))
((node:FiducialTracker (FreeFrame DShow9)))
((node:Trautner (FreeFrame DShow9)))

~~~

vvvv ships with a range of video tracking nodes, all implementated as ((glossary:FreeFrame)) plugins.

These nodes have pretty good helppatches and speak for themselves.

{SPLIT}

!CV.Image-based
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
Canny (CV.Image)
OpticalFlow (CV.Image Horn-Schunk)
DetectObject (CV.Image)
Perspective (CV.Transform)
Erode (CV.Image)
Sobel (CV.Image)
Delauney (CV.Image)
...and many more

~~~

The ((/contribution/vvvv.packs.image|Image Pack)) provides plenty of nodes which offer computer vision and image manipulation algorithms defined in the ((glossary:OpenCV)) library.

{SPLIT}

!FaceTracking
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
FaceData (Kinect Microsoft)
DetectObject (Freeframe DShow9)
FaceTracker (Freeframe DShow9)
DetectObject (CV.Image)

~~~

These are the options vvvv offers for tracking faces. Look at their helppatches for details:
* via Kinect: FaceData (Kinect Microsoft). Kinect1 tracks a maximum of 2 faces. Not sure about the limits of Kinect2. 
* via Freeframe: 
** DetectObject (Freeframe DShow9) and a corresponding haarcascade file. Tracks multiple faces.
** FaceTracker (Freeframe DShow9)
* via CV.Image: DetectObject (CV.Image) and a corresponding haarcascade file. Tracks multiple faces.

{SPLIT}

!External tracking tools
{SPLIT()}

~~~

Check the external ((video software links#tracking-tools|Tracking Tools)) that can communicate with vvvv.

{SPLIT}