__There are 4 ways for playing back video files:__

!DirectShow-based media player
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node:FileStream (DShow9)))
((node:FileStream (DShow9 Boygroup)))

((node:FileStream2 (DShow9)))
((node:FileStream2 (DShow9 Boygroup)))

((node:VideoTexture (EX9.Texture VMR9)))

~~~

This native node and its variations plays back all different kinds of videos Windows Mediaplayer plays as well. If a specific DirectShow codec is installed on a system the ((node:FileStream (DShow9))) can playback files encoded with that codec.

It can also handle [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AviSynth|AviSynth] scripts. The script mimics itself as an AVI file and allows joining and editing several videos. Check the ((elektromeier-AVSAVIJoiner|AVIJoiner)) from ((user:elektromeier)).

Try the __FileStream2 (DShow9)__ for hickupfree file switching.
The __FileStream (DShow9 Boygroup)__'s special power is to syncronize several players on the same or several machines (in a ((boygrouping-basics|Boygroup)) setup).

Their ((pin:Filename)) pin is not spreadable, therefore only one file can be played at a time.

However it's possible to have several ((node:FileStream (DShow9))) connected to their own ((node:VideoTexture (EX9.Texture VMR9))) and ((AudioOut (DShow9))) in the same patch in order to play several files in parallel. Beware though that those streams will not run in sync by default.

!!!!Synchronization
Multiple players can by synchronized locally or in a network scenario, see ((video-synchronization|Video Synchronization)).

!!!!Note

With all directshow pins (of type audio / midi / video) you can connect __each output to only one input__ pin. Therefore it is not possible with the DShow9 system to play a file and analyse it at the same time using nodes like ((node:Contour (FreeFrame DShow9))) or ((node:Trautner (FreeFrame DShow9))). 

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Video

{SPLIT}

!Image Sequences
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node:Player (EX9.Texture)))
((node:Player (EX9.Texture Timebased)))

~~~

The ((node:Player (EX9.Texture))) accesses individual frames stored in a directory by frameindices. It has been optimized for high bandwidth texture throughput. Textures are kept in RAM and are only transferred to the GPU as needed.

It accepts a variety of formats, also some that are not supported by ((node:FileTexture (EX9.Texture))) such as TIFFs.

Several sequences (stored in different folders) can be played in parallel.

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Video

__DX11 Versions:__
* Free: ((contribution:Player (DX11.Texture))) contribution by ((user:woei))
* Pro: ((/store/#dx11-imagesequence-player|DX11 Imagesequence Player)) by NSYNK

{SPLIT}

!VLC-based media player
{SPLIT()}

[http://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html|The VLC Media Player]

!!!!Related nodes
((node:FileStream (EX9.Texture VLC)))

~~~
The ((node:FileStream (EX9.Texture VLC))) plays back all the codecs the VLC Media Player does.

Its ((pin:Filename)) pin is spreadable, so the node can read several videos at the same time and return their frames as a spread of textures.

__The VLC node is contributed by ((user:ft)) and is coming with the ((downloads|addonpack)).__

^note:
The [http://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html|VLC Player] has to be installed on the system in order for the node to work.
^

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Video

__DX11 Version:__
* ((contribution:Filestream (VLC) for DX11)) contribution by ((user:Lrinke))

{SPLIT}

!Hap Media Player 
{SPLIT()}

[https://github.com/vidvox/hap|Hap video codec]

~~~

Hap is a video codec that performs decompression using a computer's graphics hardware, substantially reducing the CPU usage necessary to play video.

* ((/contribution/demolition-media-hap-player|Demolition Media Hap Player)) by ((user:lev))

{SPLIT}