!General advices
* Make sure videos you want to sync all have equal length and the same codec. 

* Disable features like "CPU SpeedStep" that adapt the speed of the CPU.  The videosync algorithm uses the high resolution performance counter of your cpu to calculate timing. This can become unreliable when the bios changes the cpu speed to save power or performance. 

* Syncing does not seem to work for audio. Needs more investigation...

!Network/Many machines
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node: FileStream (DShow9 Boygroup)))


~~~

__With Boygrouping__
In a ((Boygrouping|boygroup)) simply use the ((node: FileStream (DShow9 Boygroup))) instead of the usual filestream node and boygroup it. Note: ((multiboygrouping|multi server boygrouping)) is not supported.

__Without Boygrouping__
The ((node: FileStream (DShow9 Boygroup))) can also be used in non-boygrouped setups: 
# on the 'server' machine define the ((pin:Port)).
# on every 'client' set the ((pin:Is Client)) (hidden pin) to 1, set the ((pin:Port)) and the ((pin:Server IP)) (hidden pins) of the server. Done.

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Video

__See also:__
* ((/blog/boygroup-time-and-filestream-synchronization|Boygroup Time and FileStream Synchronization))

{SPLIT}

!Locally/Same machine
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node: FileStream (DShow9 Local Master)))
((node: FileStream (DShow9 Local Slave)))

~~~

To sync videos locally (be it in one or multiple instances of vvvv) just place a ((node:FileStream (DShow9 Local Master))), define its ((pin:Master Port)) and place as many ((node:FileStream (DShow9 Local Slave))) as you wish.

There can only be one master sitting on one particular port. The slaves listening to this master need to have the same 'Master Port' defined. 

If the master node turns red its ((pin:Master Port)) is probably already in use.

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Video

{SPLIT}
