!Workshop Series at ksa:k in Chisinau
in 2006 vvvv.org was invited by [http://www.art.md|ksa:k] (center of contemporary art) in chisinau, moldova, to do a series of workshops resulting in an exhibition. guided by our friend adel idris, organizer of the workshop-series, three of us spent a nice week in chisinau. not only teaching but also very much enjoying the moldavian cuisine..

for more general information and some videos of the final exhibition see the [http://www.art.md/2005/06_edu_en.html|documentation by ksa:k]


!Block 1: 24 februarie - 1 martie 2006
with Sebastian Oschatz

Download all Patches from the 5-day workshop here: [http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=751|patches.zip (177.74 Kb)]


{img src = "dsc03463_2.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "dsc03447_2_1.jpg" thumb=2}
Fotografie de Gelu Negura


!Block 2: 5 - 10 aprilie 2006
with Sebastian Gregor

resulting projects: [http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=807|download patches (4.05 Mb)]

{img src = "pict0132.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "pict0122.jpg" thumb=2}


!Block 3: 25 – 30 octombrie 2006
with joreg

in the last week we concentrated on finishing all the individual works of the participants to show them in one big exhibition. following is a listing of the works that have finally been realized with vvvv:

{img src = "edu_maximus_01.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "edu_maximus_02.jpg" thumb=2}

!!!by Maxim Kuzmenko
two monitors showing basically the same camera-view, but things that move dissapear on the left screen and appear on the right.

{img src = "edu_luminica_01.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "edu_luminica_02.jpg" thumb=2}

!!!by Luminica
by reading the ascending text you can prevent the ball from vanishing..

{img src = "edu_tatjana_01.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "edu_tatjana_02.jpg" thumb=2}

!!!by Tatiana Fiodorova
the visitor is trapped inside a grid of rubber-bars.

{img src = "edu_hommage_01.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "edu_hommage_02.jpg" thumb=2}

!!!by Ivan Roshka aka IONest
"Rock is Dead"

{img src = "edu_sando_01.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "edu_sando_02.jpg" thumb=2}

!!!by Alexander Ermurache (Sando)
smoothly deforming patterns from time to time uncovering photographs.

{img src = "edu_bigfish_01.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "edu_bigfish_02.jpg" thumb=2}

!!!by Kirill Zaremba
kirill named his work "big fish". a real (slightly too big) fish is being tracked. the movement information retrieved moves around a video on screen that shows the interview of a wellknown moldavian art-critic being interviewed.
the right picture shows kirill himself being interviewd about his work by moldavian state television. 

visitors of the exhibition:
{img src = "edu_exhibit_01.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "edu_exhibit_02.jpg" thumb=2}
{img src = "edu_exhibit_03.jpg" thumb=2}{img src = "edu_exhibit_04.jpg" thumb=2}


bye bye
{img src = "pict0152.jpg"}