!Plain Text files
{SPLIT()}
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plain_text|Wikipedia on Plain Text]
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Character_encoding|Wikipedia on Character Encodings]
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode|Wikipedia on Unicode]
!!!!Related nodes
((node:Reader (String)))
((node:Writer (String)))

~~~

vvvv uses Unicode internally but it allows you to read and write plain text files in ''any'' encoding you like. 

Plain Text files are good for:
* saving texts
* saving values in a human-readable form

Their weakness:
* big size of the files
* conversion of values into characters & loosing precision

Files that contain markup or other meta-data are generally considered plain-text. 

* Simple peers like [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values|CSV] can be parsed using the nodes from the ((strings#plain-text|String category)).
* For XML files use the ((strings#xml|XElement nodes)).
* For a bit more advanced pattern matching use ((strings#regular-expressions|Regular Expressions)).

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* \IO\Files

__See also:__
* ((strings#plain-text|Handling Plain Text data))
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/8112+3419|Related Contributions))

{SPLIT}

!Raw binary files
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node:Reader (Raw)))
((node:Writer (Raw)))
((node:GetBytes (Raw)))
((node:AsValue (Raw)))
((node:AsString (Raw)))
((node:AsColor (Raw)))
((node:AsRaw (Value)))
((node:AsRaw (String)))
((node:AsRaw (Color)))
...and many more

~~~

Any file on your harddrive can be read using the ((node:Reader (Raw))). Its raw bytes can be converted into one of vvvvs datatypes or used as they are, only you know the limits. Raw data can also be saved into a file using the ((node:Writer (Raw))).

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* IO\Files

{SPLIT}