!DMX & Art-Net
{SPLIT()}

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DMX512|DMX]
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Art-Net|Art-Net]
[http://www.artisticlicence.com/WebSiteMaster/User%20Guides/art-net.pdf|Art-Net spicification]

!!!!Related nodes
((node:ArtNet (Network Sender))
((node:ArtNet (Network Receiver))
...and many more


~~~

The DMX-protocol transmits up to 512 channels per universe, this is equivalent to a spread of 512 slices.

DMX values are Integers in the range (0..255) but from vvvv you set them in a range of (0..1) instead. Keep in mind that the resolution is still 8-bit though, so only 256 steps (including 0 and 1) are possible.

Art-Net is a standard for transmission of DMX over Ethernet.

vvvv supports the Art-Net II specification with a total number of 256 universes: 16 subnets with 16 universes each. 

As defined in the protocol, Art-Net talks over UDP on port 6454 (0x1936). This port number can be changed: just start vvvv from a command line with an option '/artnetport nnnn' (nnnn - your port number).

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* IO\DMX

__See also:__
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/7414+2187|Related Contributions))
* ((kalle.Modules.DMX|A range of DMX Modules)) by ((user:kalle))
* ((dmx.hardware|List of DMX Hardware))
* ((node08.workshop.DMX|node08 DMX workshop material))

{SPLIT}


!HID
{SPLIT()}

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_interface_device|HID]
[http://www.usb.org/developers/devclass_docs/HID1_11.pdf|HID Specification]

!!!!Related nodes
((node:HID (Devices)))
((node:HIDDecode (Devices)))
((node:HIDEncode (Devices)))
~~~

vvvv can talk to any generic HID-Device (Human Interface Device). These can be joysticks, game pads and button panels, data gloves and other things connected via USB.

For more information check HID-nodes helppatches and the ((hid-nodes|wiki-page on the HID nodes)).
{SPLIT}


!HTTP
{SPLIT()}

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypertext_Transfer_Protocol|HTTP]
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer|REST]

!!!!Related nodes
((node:HTTP (Network Get)))
((node:HTTP (Network Post)))
((node:HTTP (Network Receiver)))
((node:HTTP (Network Server)))
...and many more


~~~

vvvv is able to send GET and POST requests to retrieve/send data from/to webservers.

vvvv can also be a webserver itself by using the ((node:HTTP (Network Server))) node.

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* IO\Web

__See also__
* ((contribution:restful-http-node|RESTful HTTP Node)) by ((user:korriander))

{SPLIT}

!ILDA
{SPLIT()}

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Laser_Display_Association|International Laser Display Association]
[http://www.laserfx.com/Backstage.LaserFX.com/Standards/ILDAframes.html|ILDA Image Data Transfer Format]
[http://www.lichtbastler.de/lumax|Minilumax Light Interface]

!!!!Related nodes
((node:Lumax (Devices)))
~~~

vvvv can talk to ILDA-compatible lasers via the ((node:Lumax (Devices))). For more information check its helppatch.

{SPLIT}



!MIDI
{SPLIT()}

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIDI|MIDI protocol]
[http://www.midi.org/about-midi/table1.shtml|MIDI specification]
[http://www.midiox.com/|Very helpful MIDI Utility]
[http://www.nerds.de/en/loopbe1.html|MIDI Virtual Driver]
[http://www.tobias-erichsen.de/|Multi MIDI Virtual Driver]
[http://www.copperlan.org/index.php/download|MIDI Virtual Network Driver]

!!!!Related nodes
((node:MidiNote (Devices)))
((node:MidiController (Devices)))
((node:MidiProgram (Devices)))
((node:MidiBend (Devices)))
((node:MidiClock (Devices)))
((node:TodoMap (TodoMap)))
MidiIn (VAudio)
MidiNode (VAudio)
MidiFilePlayer (VAudio)
...and many more
~~~

In MIDI slang controllers are: volume knob, modulation wheel, pan fader, pedal, etc. The instrument as a whole is called a device and sends its data on a specified channel number. 

vvvv counts midi channels from 0 to 15 and notes from 0 to 127. Note's velocities and control values are defined in the range (0..1).

The ((pin:Buffer Length)) of the Midi input nodes sets the maximum number of incoming midi-messages that get queued for output in the patch. Only one message per vvvv-frame will be returned in the patch while within a frame's timespan more than one message could arrive.

- If you want fast responses (messing around with a faderbox cause a lot of control messages): set the 'Buffer Length' low, even 0.

- If you want to make sure that you receive every single midi-message: set the 'Buffer Length' to a high value (ie. 999).

A handy patch to receive and understand what your midi device is sending:
* IO\Midi\02_KnowYourDevice.v4p

An example on how to receive different notes and control values on different channels:
* IO\Midi\03_ReceivingNoteAndControl.v4p

Check all other examples about Midi:
* IO\Midi\

!!!VAudio
VAudio Pack supports MIDI events. This has a big advantage because the midi events happen as the occur and do not get quantized by the vvvv mainloop.
__((/contribution/vvvv.audio-pack-alpha|VAudio Pack)) is contributed by ((user:tonfilm)).__


!!!TodoMap
There is also a useful MIDI & OSC mapper for vvvv called TodoMap. Check the video-tutorials from ((contribution:launchpad-(todomap-launchpad)-todomap-tutorials|this contribution)) by ((user:vux)) & ((user:antokhio)).

__The TodoMap nodes are contributed by ((user:vux)) and are coming with the ((downloads|addonpack)).__


__Useful MIDI-Modules:__
* ((/contributions/all/3075|Midi-related contributions))
* ((kalle.Modules.MIDI|A range of Midi modules)) by ((user:kalle))

__Virtual Midi Ports use:__
keep in mind that some virtual midi ports like loopBe or loopMidi need 
the same architecture at both ends 32 OR 64 bits.
if you need to communicate between x86 and x64 softwares have a look at copperlan.


{SPLIT}

!MQTT
{SPLIT()}

[http://mqtt.org/|MQTT protocol]

~~~

MQTT is short for Message Queue Telemetry Transport, is a light weight open Source messaging protocol for the Internet of Things.

It is a great and easy way to exchange low frequency messages like sensor readings, or program states etc. between multiple machines and services. It's very robust with a small footprint.

__Contributions:__

* ((contribution:mqtt-sender-receiver|MQTT Sender & Receiver)) by ((user:korriander))
* ((contribution:mqtt-revamped|MQTT Revamped)) by ((user:woei))

{SPLIT}


!OSC
{SPLIT()}

[http://opensoundcontrol.org/introduction-osc|OSC]
((hardware#mobile-devices|OSC Apps )) for mobile devices.

!!!!Related nodes
((node:OSCEncoder (Network)))
((node:OSCDecoder (Network)))
((node:TodoMap (TodoMap)))
...and many more
~~~

The OSC protocol can be used to communicate between vvvv and other software like Ableton Live, Pure Data, Max/MSP, Resolume... you name it.

OSC is useful when you want to send different parameters via one udp-port. OSC adds an "address" to your data that you can conveniently filter for on the receiving end.

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* IO\Networking\2_Advanced (OSC)

There is also a useful MIDI & OSC mapper for vvvv called TodoMap. Check the video-tutorials from ((contribution:launchpad-(todomap-launchpad)-todomap-tutorials|this contribution)) by ((user:vux)) & ((user:antokhio)).

__The TodoMap nodes are contributed by ((user:vux)) and are coming with the ((downloads|addonpack)).__

{SPLIT}


!TUIO
{SPLIT()}

[http://tuio.org/|TUIO protocol]
[https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=tuioDroid.impl&hl=en|TUIODroid at Google Play] 
[https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/tuiopad/id412446962|TUIOPad at Apple Store]

!!!!Related nodes
((node:TUIODecoder (Network 1.0)))

~~~

TUIO is a common protocol and API for tangible multitouch surfaces. This protocol encodes control data from a tracker application (e.g. based on computer vision) and sends it to any client application that is capable of decoding the protocol.

You can easily test communication via TUIO by using one of [http://tuio.org/?software|these software simulators (scroll to bottom)].

__The ((node:TUIODecoder (Network 1.0))) node is contributed by ((user:Abomb)) and is coming with the ((downloads|addonpack)).__

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* IO\TUIO

{SPLIT}

!UDP & TCP
{SPLIT()}

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_Datagram_Protocol|UDP]
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol|TCP]

!!!!Related nodes

((node:UDP (Network Client)))
((node:UDP (Network Server)))
((node:TCP (Network Client)))
((node:TCP (Network Server)))

((node:Tokenizer (Raw FixedLength)))
((node:Tokenizer (Raw LengthPrefix)))
((node:Tokenizer (Raw Postfix)))
((node:Tokenizer (Raw Frame)))

((node:PrefixLength (Raw)))
((node:PostfixBytes (Raw)))
((node:FrameBytes (Raw)))
~~~

The main difference between the UDP and TCP protocols is the fact that while UDP transmits faster, it does not guarantee all data to arrive. TCP tends to be a bit slower but it does guarantee the arrival of all data sent. Therefore UDP is generally used for streams of data where it does not matter if a single data is missing whereas TCP is used when every single data sent needs to arrive on the other side. Also UDP allows you to send broadcasts to a range of listeners. This can easily be done by using a broadcast IP like x.y.z.255 (where x.y.z is your subnet, like e.g. 192.168.0) for the ((pin:Remote Host)).

Note that choosing TCP requires you to take care of [http://blog.stephencleary.com/2009/04/message-framing.html|message framing] for which vvvv offers the Tokenizer nodes. 

More infos in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* IO\Networking

{SPLIT}

!ZeroMQ
{SPLIT()}

[http://zeromq.org/|ZeroMQ]
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%98MQ|Wikipedia on ZeroMQ]
~~~

ØMQ (also spelled ZeroMQ, 0MQ or ZMQ) is a high-performance asynchronous messaging library, aimed at use in distributed or concurrent applications.

__Contributions:__

* ((contribution:vvvv-zeromq|vvvv-ZeroMQ)) by ((user:velcrome))

{SPLIT}