!Introduction
{SPLIT()}

vvvv offers different approaches to animate objects in ''interactive ''environments. 

In many cases, it's not enough to just place static keyframes on a timeline and let the playhead do the job. The animation may need to react to actions or events coming from sensors, networks, input devices or beat-detectors. So in these cases __the direction of movement needs to change spontaneously__ and you often want the transition to the new movement to occur as smoothly as possible. Time- and frame-based approaches can do this trick.

Still, often you also want to timeline some behavior and even ((animation#mixed-approaches|combine)) the different techniques.


^

So here are the three basic approaches:

* ((animation#timebased-animation|Time-based Animation))
* ((animation#framebased-animation|Frame-based Animation))
* ((animation#timeline|Timeline))

^
~~~

__Time-based__ vs. __frame-based__ approaches:

''Time-based:''
* most time-based filters are parameterized in a way that they __animate towards a target point__ within a specified certain time. The target can be changed at any point in time.
* the animation's speed is independent of the framerate.

''Frame-based:''
* typically you think about __events and reaction to those events at the current moment__, not so much about reaching a target in the future.
* the main idea is to change the value each frame just a bit
* the animation's speed depends on the framerate and extra care should be taken to avoid it.

Interested in particle systems?
* ((Particles))
{SPLIT}


!Time-based Animation
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
Generators:
((node:LFO (Animation)))

Filters:
((node:Damper (Animation)))
((node:Oscillator (Animation)))
((node:Newton (Animation))) - accelerates & decelerates
((node:OneEuroFilter (Animation)))
((node:LinearFilter (Animation)))
((node:Tweener (Animation)))
((node:ADSR (Animation)))
((node:Decay (Animation)))
((node:DeNiro (Animation))) - accelerates, drives with constant speed, decelerates (just like a taxi driver)

...and many more, see the Animation category.
~~~

When there must be a transition between a starting point (A) and a target point (B) and the animation of the value depends only on time, then the nodes from the Animation category do the tweening for you.

These nodes are building a function curve to animate from A to B and sample this curve as the time goes (independent from the framerate), returning a new value every frame.

If point B changes during the animation, the node builds a new curve and smoothly animates to the new target.

If you just want to smoothen (filter) input values, besides ((node:Damper (Value))) or ((node:Newton (Value))) there is also ((node:OneEuroFilter (Animation))) worth checking out.

__See also:__
* ((Clock Sources))
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/3311+3812+2492|Related Contributions))

{SPLIT}

!Frame-based Animation
{SPLIT()}
!!!!Related nodes
to built up your loops:
((node:FrameDelay (Value)))

to accumulate values over time or get changes between frames:
((node:Integrate (Differential)))
((node:FrameVelocity (Animation)))
((node:FrameDifference (Animation)))

to measure time itself:
((node:StopWatch (Value)))

nodes that are frame-based implementations of some algorithm:
((node:ADSR (Value Framebased)))
((node:Spray (Animation)))
((node:Wanderer (Animation 2d)))
((node:Wanderer (Animation 3d)))

~~~

Scenario: an object shall react to events by applying forces. 
There are different famous examples of this way of doing animations:
* BOIDS
* Physics engines, like ((contribution:box2d|Box2D)) or Bullet (included in ((contribution:directx11-nodes|DX11))).

But you also can do your own frame-based animation, simply by patching.

{img src = "FeedbackLoops_Understanding2_0.png" }

The basic idea here is that the current value of the animation is simply calculated based upon the value of the last frame and tweaked a bit in a certain way. See more about ((patching-concepts#loops|Loops)).

When doing this naively, higher frame rates will result in faster animations. To avoid that, here is a simple trick: 

* measure how much time has passed between the last frame and the current frame. A combination of ((node:Stopwatch (Animation))) and ((node: FrameDifference (Animation))) can help you out.
* scale your velocity and acceleration by this amount

As a result your animation will be framerate independent.

__See also:__
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/3402+3400+2492+7216|Related Contributions))

{SPLIT}

!Timeline
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node:Timeliner (Animation)))

~~~

If you have static predefined animations, the Timeliner is the easy way to animate properties in time. Check ((timelinersa|this dedicated page)) on how to use it.

!!!!Automata
The Timeliner has an ((timelinersa#automata|Automata)) built in. You can define states (and animations for them) then jump between these states upon the arrival of the events. Every event gets its own input pin.

__See also:__

* ((/contribution/automata-ui| Automata UI)) contributed by ((user:u7angel))
* ((TimelinerSA)) - Timeliner's standalone version
* ((/blog/timelinersa-next-generation-alpha-grade-release|TimelinerSA NG)) - web-based Timeliner
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/3217+4122+2768+9309|Related Contributions))

__Thirdparty OSC Timelines__
If the above don't suffice your needs, try one of these third party timelines that can talk to vvvv via ((protocols#osc|OSC)):
* [https://github.com/YCAMInterlab/Duration|Duration] - Timeline for creative code
* [https://imimot.com/vezer|VEZÉR] - Timeline based MIDI/OSC/DMX sequencer for audiovisual artists
* [https://www.iannix.org/en/|IanniX] - A graphical open-source sequencer for digital art
* [http://oscseq.com|OSCSeq] - Open Sound Control recording and playback
* [http://ktl.klingt.org/|KluppeTimeLine] - KluppeTimeLine is a graphical, animated score system
* [https://ossia.io/|ossia score] - A free and open-source intermedia sequencer
* [https://github.com/kuflex/KuStudio|KuStudio] is an open source OSC editor, recorder and player, aimed to create a timeline on an audiotrack

{SPLIT}

!Mixed Approaches
{SPLIT()}
~~~

* You can use the Timeliner to define some crucial states of the values in time and let the ((animation#time-based-animation|Time-based Nodes)) do the job to smoothen the transitions.

* The other way around: you can have several nicely animated timelines (or several animation states on one timeline) and trigger them when a certain condition is met. This condition can depend on a time- or frame-based animation.

{SPLIT}