 
!Installer
{SPLIT()}
{img src = "vvvv_UAC_Screen2.png" thumb=324} 
{img src = "vvvv_installer.png"  thumb=324} 

~~~

* Running the installer prompts you with "User Account Control" confirming its authenticity
* Simply click through the installer
* By default vvvv will be installed into __C:\vvvv__, because it won't work in __C:\Program Files__...
* The Installer optionally installs the addonpack.

!!!!OS X
Want to run vvvv on your mac? Here is a collection of some 
((best-practices-when-using-bootcamp|Best practices with Bootcamp)).
{SPLIT}

!Offline Installer
{SPLIT()}
{img src = "vvvv_folder4.png"}
~~~

* Simply click through the offline Installer
* The addonpack won't be installed by default
* If you choose to install the addopack, the installer will download and install it for you. Otherwise you can download the addopack manually and extract it into your vvvv-folder so that the \addonpack directory is placed right next to the \girlpower directory.

{SPLIT}

!Start vvvv
{SPLIT()}
{img src = "vvvv_StartMenu.png"} 
 
~~~

* Start vvvv from the "Recently Added" section of the Windows' Start Menu
* or directly from the vvvv folder on your drive (default is c:\vvvv).

See the gray window?
Welcome. ((tutorial-introduction|Everything is fine)).

---

Encounter any troubles with running vvvv? See the ((Troubleshooting)) page.


{SPLIT}

!Uninstalling
{SPLIT()}
{img src = "vvvv_uninstall_AppsAndFeatures2.png"} 


~~~

* Uninstall vvvv via Windows' "Apps & Features" dialog
* or simply run unins000.exe from your vvvv-folder

{SPLIT}