!Written Documentation
The ((Documentation)) page collects all known material about vvvv. You will find a ((Learning)) section including tutorials and demo patches. The ((Using vvvv)) section which is a manual about all vvvv specific features, the ((Topics)) section which collects information about different entry points you may look for when realizing a specific goal. 

{SPLIT()}
!Help from other People
!!!!vvvvorums
The ((/forums|forum)) is the place for asking questions and sharing ideas. All vvvv developers are regularily reading the forum so you're very likely to get an answer soon.  

Although we encourage you to register, you can post to the forum by loging in as "guest" with password "guest".  

!!!!Chat
We encourage everybody to join us for a ((/chat|chat)).

!!!!Shoutbox 
To get some short time attention of the community (resulting in fast answers) place a SOS signal into the shoutbox. 

!!!!Screenshots of the Day
You can post a screenshot on the ((/blog|blog)) directly out of vvvv by selecting a window and pressing CRTL+3.
Pressing CTRL+3 works with any vvvv-window. So make sure to have the renderer selected when you want to show us your results and not your patches. 
((/blog/26|All Screenshots of all the Days)) 

!!!!Galería
In the ((/blog/24|Galería blog)) everyone can post entries to present her or his new work using vvvv.

If you want to write more about a project, create a page in the wiki and include a link in your blog post. You may also like to link to your external pages. 
~~~
!Help from within vvvv
!!!!Herr Inspektor
CTRL+I opens an ((Inspektor)) window. Selecting a node with an inspektor open you'll see a short description what this node is intended to do.

!!!!Helppatches
Pressing F1 with a node selected opens a helppatch explaining the node in some detail. If you press F1 with no node selected, a generic help patch is shown.

Also see the ((video-tutorials#tutorial-12-helpfiles-f1-and-comments|video tutorial on Helppatches)).

!!!!Node Reference
vvvv brings up a page from the ((Node Reference)), when pressing Alt-F1 with a node selected. a nodereference page exists for every native node and nodes that come with the addonpack. the pages are user-editable and thus can contain additional information concerning that node provided by other users.

!!!!The Girlpower directory
These tutorials, examples and demo patches try to explain several (sometimes advanced) topics. However they are good to see how some nodes can be used together in an elegant way.
{SPLIT}

!Help from the vvvv group
We provide workshops, lectures and training courses. Please contact us for details via groupӘvvvv.org