In mathematics a ''Curve'' is "a line that does not need to be straight". With that definition a large number of [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_curves|different curves exist] each of which can be described by a mathematical formula.

::{img src = "DifferentCurves1.png"} ::
::''Different mathematical curves''::

In computer graphics we're most interested in curves that can be described by mathematical formulas that are called [http://www.mathsisfun.com/algebra/polynomials.html|polynomial functions]. In order to be able to draw arbitrarily curved lines often multiple such curve-segments are combined to a ''Spline''. The term "Spline" originates from an old draftsmen tool called a [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flat_spline|Flat Spline].


::{img src = "CurvesAndSegments2.png" } ::
::''Curves that are piecewise defined by polynomial functions are called Splines''::

There are many different types of splines (hermite, bézier, catmull-rom, b-spline,..). but they all share the following key properties:
* they are continuous at the ''Knots''
* ''Control Points'' influence their shape

::{img src = "BezierAndB-Spline_ControlPoints2.png" } ::
::''Splines with their segments, control points and knots''::


!Bézier Spline
{SPLIT()}
{img src = "BezierQuadratic.png" } 
''Quadratic Bézier Curve with its Control Point''

{img src = "BezierCubic.png" } 
''Cubic Bézier Curve with its two Control Points''

~~~

The most popular Bézier curves are quadratic and cubic in nature as higher degree curves are expensive to draw, evaluate and not so intuitive to handle. 

__Characteristics__
* they cannot exactly describe circles and ellipses
* they are a special cases of B-Spline

!!!!Related nodes
((node:BezierEditor (2d)))
((node:BezierEditor (3d))) 
''See also nodes from the 'BezierSegment' category.''

BezierEditor nodes are operating with cubic Bézier splines.

__See also:__
* [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%C3%A9zier_curve|Wikipedia on Bézier curves]

{SPLIT}

!B-Spline
{SPLIT()}
{img src = "B-Spline-Open.png" } 
''An open B-Spline does not go through its control points''

{img src = "B-Spline-Clamped.png" } 


''A clamped B-Spline which at least goes through its first and last control point''

~~~

B-Spline is short for "basis spline".

__Characteristics__
* they do not go through their control points
* they have C2 continuity!
* they are a special case of NURBS

* in order to have a sharp corner in a B-Spline it takes three control-points at the same position
* it is hard to insert a control point without changing the curve
* it is hard to make a straight line
* depending on its degree, changing one point changes large parts of the curve
* they cannot exactly describe circles and ellipses.

In order to make it more intuitive to handle a B-Spline can also be constructed in a way it at least goes through its first and last control point.

!!!!Related nodes
((node:B-Spline (Value)))
((node:B-Spline (2d)))
((node:B-Spline (3d)))
((node:B-Spline (3d Wryly)))

__See also:__
* [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B-spline|Wikipedia on B-Splines]

{SPLIT}

!NURBS
{SPLIT()}
{img src = "NURBS.png" } 
''A NURBS with its weighted control points''


~~~

NURBS (short for "non uniform rational b-spline") are essentially B-Splines with a weight for each control point. If all its weights equal 1 the NURBS is a B-Spline. 

* NURBS generalizes both B-splines and Bézier curves 
* they can accurately represent circles and ellipses


!!!!Related nodes
((node:NURBS (2d)))
((node:NURBS (3d)))

__See also:__
* [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-uniform_rational_B-spline|Wikipedia on NURBS]

{SPLIT}

---
Sources
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curve
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_curves
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spline_%28mathematics%29
* http://pomax.github.io/bezierinfo