^feel free to use this site for linking to your own DMXmodules.

and don't miss 
*__((node08.workshop.DMX))__
*__((howto dmx|HowTo DMX))__ 
*__((howto dmx advanced|HowTo DMX Advanced))__^

!+ ^DMX fixtures and DMX simulations^
!!+ Definition

{BOX(bg=>#F0F0FF)}

All modulesets here consist of each minimal one 
__DMXfixture__module and a __DMXsimulation__module 
with helppatches and subpatches.

{BOX}


{BOX(title=>DMXfixtures, bg=>#F0F0FF)}

__DMXfixture__modules
 
combine the necessary data for direct output to DMX interfaces. 
Connect your fixtures and let them move.

{img src = "coemarcf1200washdmxfixtures_2007.08.3014.58.23.jpg" thumb=448}

{BOX}

{BOX(title=>DMXsimulation, bg=>#F0F0FF)}

__DMXsimulation__-modules 
have a spread input for "raw" DMXdata and get exactly the same informations like the real world fixture.

{img src = "coemarcf1200washdmxsimulation_2007.08.3015.10.34.jpg" thumb=444}

{BOX}

With ((DMX (Network) Artnet Sender)) and ((DMX (Network) ArtNet Receiver)) you can run the simulation on any other computer in the network.

!!+ Modules
!!!+ Coemar CF1200 Wash
 30.08.2007
{SPLIT()}
__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1254|download Coemar CF1200 Wash modules]__
~~~
{img src = "coemarcf1200washdmxfixtures_2007.08.3014.58.23.jpg" thumb} {img src = "coemarcf1200washdmxsimulation_2007.08.3015.10.34.jpg" thumb} {img src = "coemarcf1200washdmxfixtureshelp_2007_1.08" thumb}{SPLIT}
----
!!!+ Martin MAC300
 30.08.2007
{SPLIT()}
__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1253|download Martin MAC 300 modules]__
~~~
{img src = "martinmac300dmxfixtures_2007.08.3015.16.19.jpg" thumb} {SPLIT}
----
!!!+
!!! Pulsar ChromaFlood 200
!!! Pulsar ChromaBatten 200
!!! Pulsar ChromaBankIP
 05.09.2007
{SPLIT()}
__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1260|download Pulsar modules]__
~~~
{SPLIT}
----
!!!+ Ayrton ModuLED 318C
 06.09.2007
{SPLIT()}
__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1262|download Ayrton.zip]__
~~~
{SPLIT}
----
!+ ^DMX general purpose^
----
!!+ Monitor (Network Artnet Receiver).v4p
 18.09.2007 
{SPLIT()}monitor your Artnet and see active subnets and universes. 
be careful: this module "eats" performance.
intended use is debugging.

__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1283|download Monitor (Network Artnet Receiver).zip]__

~~~
{img src = "monitornetworkartnetreceiver_2007.09.1817.27.01.jpg" thumb} {img src = "monitornetworkartnetreceiverhelp_2007.09.1817.28.36.jpg" thumb}{SPLIT}

----
!!+ Address (DMX).v4p
 15.05.2007 updated
{SPLIT()}lets you easily calculate settings of the DIPswitch on your DMXdevice

__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1133|download AddressDMX.zip]__

~~~
{img src = "addressdmx_2007.06.1517.29.11.jpg" thumb} {img src = "addressdmxhelp_2007.06.1517.29.14.jpg" thumb}{SPLIT}
----
!!+ AsValue (DMX Value).v4p
 20.03.2007
{SPLIT()}convert DMX Integer to floating Value

__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1068|download AsValue (DMX Value).v4p]__

~~~
{img src = "asvaluedmxvalue_2007.03.2100.23.38.jpg" thumb} {SPLIT}
----
!!+ AsDMX (DMX Value).v4p
 20.03.2007
{SPLIT()}convert floating Value to DMX Integer

__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1069|download AsValue (DMX Value).v4p]__

~~~
{img src = "asdmxdmxvalue_2007.03.2100.23.35.jpg" thumb} {SPLIT}
----

!!+ 16bit (DMX Split Value).v4p
 20.03.2007
{SPLIT()}MovingLights often use 2 DMXchannel combined to have a 16bit Resolution e.g. for Pan/Tilt. With this module you can split up a single float value into coarse and fine value to have access to the full resolution.

__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1072|download 16bit (DMX Split Value).v4p]__

~~~
{img src = "16bitdmxsplitvalue_2007.03.2112.29.38.jpg" thumb} {SPLIT}
----
!!+ 16bit (DMX Join Value).v4p
 20.03.2007
{SPLIT()}MovingLights often use 2 DMXchannel combined to have a 16bit Resolution e.g. for Pan/Tilt. With this module you can use the full resolution in the simulation of your MovingLight.

__[http://vvvv.org/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1071|download 16bit (DMX Join Value).v4p]__

~~~
{img src = "16bitdmxjoinvalue_2007.03.2112.29.36.jpg" thumb} {SPLIT}
----

!- ^DMX spreads^
nothing here
!- ^PanTilt spreads^
nothing here

!+
{INCLUDE:kalle.info}