most modules are updated for current vvvversion, the old versions for beta8.1 are still in the ((/tiki-list_file_gallery.php?galleryId=1|Modules Gallery)) 

you should place all modules and help files into:
__/modules/tonfilms__

{maketoc}

---
! Boygroup/Network

!! tonfilm-VideoSync

^note:
this is old stuff, go here: ((video synchronization))
^

this module synchronizes videos with the same length on different computers in a boygroup setup. they will not be more than 2 frames out of sync if you are using a codec that can change playback speed in fine steps. open the file "VideoSync (VVVV Server).v4p" to see a basic setup. read ((/tiki-view_forum_thread.php?comments_parentId=12591&topics_threshold=0&topics_offset=4&topics_sort_mode=lastPost_desc&topics_find=&forumId=7|this forum thread)) for a little more info.

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=943videosync.zip (7.03 Kb)))

---
! Transform

!! tonfilm-ShadowsOnPlane
with Shadow (Transform) you can project any 3D object into a plane, using light direction (or position).
this is a simple method to generate shadows from 3D objects, but also limited. it works by projecting any input point on a given plane using a transformation matrix. open the heplfiles for examples.

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=591|ShadowsOnPlane.zip (33.55 Kb)))

contains five modules:

all inputs spreadable, but a little slow sometimes:

''ShadowPos (Transform OnPlane LightPosition).v4p''
''ShadowDir (Transform OnPlane LightDirection).v4p''

very fast but only the object input is spreadable, not the plane or light:

''ShadowPos (Transform OnPlane LightPosition Simple).v4p''
''ShadowDir (Transform OnPlane LightDirection Simple).v4p''

and to project the shadows on, a plane is also included:
''Plane (EX9.Geometry Vector Out).v4p''

!! tonfilm-ObjectAxisRotation
this is a rotation always around the axis of the object. looks damn cool, try the help patch ... used in ((kiilo - FlyingCamera))

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=590|ObjectAxisRotation.zip (8.98 Kb)))
 
!! tonfilm-EgoShooter
the EgoShooter (Transform).v4p module, is like a camera. connect it to the projection pin of Renderer (DX9), and you will be able to move with some keys thru your vvvvorld in EgoShooter style (Rotation and forwards/backwards)

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=594|EgoShooter.zip (7.37 Kb)))

on this second version i added a very special feature:
if you press r for reset to InitPos, Mr. DeNiro drives you smooth and
securely home.

{img src = "egoshootertransformhelp0.jpg" }

---
! DX9/EX9

!! tonfilm-QuadGrid
a grid geometry module to have quads instead of triangles in wireframe mode.

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=1063|QuadGrid.zip (3.65 Kb)))

 {img src = "vertexshadertransforms2directxrenderer0.jpg" }

!! tonfilm-VectorDX9
draw a line that represents the input vector, based on kalles Line (DX9)

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=593|VectorDX9.zip (9.05 Kb)))

---
! GDI

!! tonfilm-TransformGDI
make some simple 2d transform hierarchies:

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=753|Transform GDI.zip (4.37 Kb)))

{img src = "transformgdihelp.jpg" }

---
! 3d

!! Angle3d
angle between two vectors output is 0 ... 0.5.
multiply with 2*Pi to get radeans, with 360 to get degrees.

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=592|VectorAngle.zip (2.95 Kb)))

see ((3d Vector Mathematics))

{img src = "angle3dvectorhelp.jpg" }

---
! Value

!! tonfilm-MathConstants
this is based on ((kalle.Modules.Value|kalles idea)) simply to store the values in IOboxes inside the module. but with ((IOBox (Value) Advanced)) the values get rounded to 4 decimals, but it works with ((node:IOBox (String) )) and ((node:AsValue (String) )).

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=318|MathConstants.zip (2.53 Kb)))

{img src = "mathconstantsvaluestoredandsendhelp.jpg" }

---
! Devices

!! tonfilm-MidiNotePlayed
this module listens to all midi notes of a channel, and outputs the played one as spread.

((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=503|MidiNotePlayed.zip (3.54 Kb)))

!! tonfilm-VirusCMidi
have build this to use my access virus c with vvvv.

i recommend to install the help patch also, to test every controller.

Module:
((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=31|VirusCMidi (Devices).v4p (36.05 Kb)))


Helpfile:
((/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=30))VirusCMidi (Devices) help.v4p (63.63 Kb)]

.. and a picture of the helpfile:
{img src = "viruscmidideviceshelp1_3.jpg" thumb=500}