{SPLIT()}
Firmata is a protocol for communicating with microcontrollers from software on a computer (or smartphone/tablet, etc).

The ((node:FirmataBoard (Devices))) node is able to talk to any microcontroller board (like Arduino, Teensy, Particle.io, ...) that is loaded with the Firmata firmware or uses the Firmata library.
~~~
For example, this is how to setup an Arduino Board:
* Open the [https://www.arduino.cc/en/Main/Software|Arduino IDE], choose File > Examples > Firmata > StandardFirmata. 
* Choose your 'Board' and the 'Port' under the 'Tools'. 
* Click Upload. Your Arduino is ready.
{SPLIT}

::{img src = "vvvv-ArduinoSecondService_10fps.gif" }:: 
::The ''FirmataBoard (Devices) node in action.''::

!An Overview
{img src = "vvvv-FirmataSecondService_wide2.png" } 
::''Basic setup.''::

The extensive helppatch of ((node:FirmataBoard (Devices))) explains all the details regarding reading and writing data, as well as some advanced topics like using the I2C protocol or a custom Firmata firmware. Here is just a short overview:

{SPLIT()}
* Use ((node:DigitalWrite (Firmata))), ((node:AnalogWrite (Firmata))) or ((node:ServoWrite (Firmata))) nodes to set the pins of the board.
* Use ((node:DigitalRead (Firmata))) and ((node:AnalogRead (Firmata))) nodes to get values from the board's pins.
* Use the ((pin:Sysex Messages)) output to receive different 'Sysex Messages' sent back by the microcontroller board. Some Sysex decoders are already there (((node:StringDecoder (Firmata))), ((node:CapabilityResponse (Firmata))), ...)
~~~
* The ((node:FirmataBoard (Devices))) is able to talk to any microcontroller board loaded with the standard [https://github.com/firmata/protocol/blob/master/feature-registry.md#core-feature-set|Firmata] firmware without any further configuration. In the Arduino-world such Firmata firmware is called "StandardFirmata".
* Have some custom Firmata running on your chip? Just provide the configuration manually using the ((node:BoardConfig (Firmata))).
{SPLIT}

The nodes were developed together with ((user:jens.a.e)), author of the original (now legacy) ((node:Arduino (Devices StandardFirmata 2.x))) node. 


__Examples in your vvvv\ directory:__
* girlpower\IO\Arduino
* girlpower\VL\Firmata

__See also:__
* [https://github.com/firmata/protocol#firmata-protocol-documentation|Firmata Protocol Documentation]
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/4127+3036+5126+2446+4118+3791|Related Contributions))
* [http://prototypinginterfaces.com/category/patches/|Patches from the 'Prototyping Interfaces' book]