!Images
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node:FileTexture (EX9.Texture)))
((node:Preloader (EX9.Texture)))
((node:Writer (EX9.Texture)))
((node:DX9Texture (EX9.Texture)))
((node:Filter (EX9.SamplerState)))

~~~

The ((node:FileTexture (EX9.Texture))) can load images of different formats:  *.bmp, *.dds, *.jpg, *.png, *.tga, *.tif. To render the texture it must be applied to a ((geometry)). 

Want to preload a large number of textures? See the helppatch of ((node:Preloader (EX9.Texture))) to learn how. 

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Graphics\DX9\Textures

__See also:__
* ((howto-prepare-textures|How to prepare Textures))
* ((capturing-output|Capturing output))
* ((/contributions/7934/3304|Related Packs))
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+2438+1354+1355/3303+3304+3254+4175|Related Contributions))

{SPLIT}

!Videos
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes

Playback:
((node:FileStream (DShow9)))
((node:FileStream (EX9.Texture VLC)))
((node:VideoTexture (EX9.Texture VMR9)))
((node:Player (EX9.Texture)))

Video Input:
((node:VideoIn (Dshow9)))
((node:VideoIn (EX9.Texture)))

Output:
((node:DX9Texture (EX9.Texture)))
((node:Writer (EX9.Texture)))
((node:Writer (EX9.Texture AVI)))
((node:Writer (EX9.Texture NRT)))

~~~

There are many different options to play
* videos 
* stacks of images
* live streams
in vvvv. See the ((video)) section for details on the different options. In any case at some point the video will finally be available as texture which you can place on a ((geometry)) in order to render it. 

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Graphics\DX9\Textures\

__See also:__
* ((video|Video Documentation Topic))
* ((capturing-output|Capturing output))
* ((/contributions/7934/3304|Related Packs))
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/3303+3304+3346+3345+3254+4175+1745+1744+5537+4939+2698|Related Contributions))

{SPLIT}

!HTML & Flash
{SPLIT()}

[https://code.google.com/p/chromiumembedded/|Chromium Embedded Framework]

!!!!Related nodes
((node:HTMLTexture (EX9.Texture String)))
((node:HTMLTexture (EX9.Texture URL)))
((node:HTMLTexture (DX11.Texture String CEF)))
((node:HTMLTexture (DX11.Texture URL CEF)))
((node:HTMLView (Image String)))
((node:HTMLView (Image Url)))
~~~

Webpages (incl. js, canvas, webGL, 3D css, flash... everything the [https://code.google.com/p/chromiumembedded/wiki/GeneralUsage|CEF 3.0] can display) can be used and handled as textures. Interactive ones.

The Chromium comes with tons of [http://peter.sh/experiments/chromium-command-line-switches/|command line switches]. Just start the vvvv.exe with these switches and they will be handed over to Chromium.

__HTMLTexture nodes are coming with the ((downloads|addonpack)).__

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Graphics\DX9\Textures

__See also:__
* ((software#html|Using HTML in vvvv))
* ((flash|Using Flash in vvvv))
* ((contribution:htmltexture-%28dx11%29|HTMLTexture (DX11) Contribution))

{SPLIT}

!Dynamic Textures
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes
((node:DynamicTexture (EX9.Texture Color)))
((node:DynamicTexture (EX9.Texture Raw)))
((node:DynamicTexture (EX9.Texture Value)))
((node:DX9Texture (EX9.Texture)))
((node:FrameDelay (EX9.Texture)))

~~~

In order to create textures on the fly use one of the DynamicTexture nodes and supply data for each pixel.

Or render a scene (first pass) and using the ((node:DX9Texture (EX9.Texture))) feed it as a texture into another scene (second pass).

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Graphics\DX9\Textures

__See also:__
* ((transparency-overview|Rendering on transparent background))

{SPLIT}


!Video Effects (TextureFX)
{SPLIT()}

!!!!Related nodes:
((node:Glow (EX9.Texture Filter)))
((node:Blur (EX9.Texture Filter)))
((node:Stripes (EX9.Texture Filter)))
((node:Tunnels (EX9.Texture Filter)))
((node:ShiftRGB (EX9.Texture Filter)))
((node:Polygonize (EX9.Texture Filter)))

((node:Perlin (EX9.Texture Source)))
((node:Pillow (EX9.Texture Source)))
((node:Lava (EX9.Texture Source)))
((node:Elektricity (EX9.Texture Source)))

((node:Mix (EX9.Texture Mixer)))
((node:Blend (EX9.Texture Mixer)))
((node:Blood (EX9.Texture Mixer)))

...and many __many__ more.

~~~

TextureFX is essentially vvvvs answer to [http://freeframe.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/freeframe/trunk/docs/specification.html|freeframeGL], i.e. a specification for modules that do GPU-based texture-generation, -manipulation and -analysis.

It's like using filters and layers in Photoshop or AfterEffects, but interactively and in real-time (ie. GPU-based).

Every video is just a sequence of textures, so there is no difference whether the effects are applied to the static images or to the video streams (represented as textures).

The whole series of modules/effects is now part of the ((downloads|Addonpack)). Type 'fx' in the ((the-gui#node-browser|NodeBrowser)) to get the full list of available nodes.

The idea was triggered by ((user:karistouf)) in his thread with the almost poetic title ((forum:pure-image-treatment-question-wich-evolution-for-vvvv)) and implementation is expertly lead by ((user:unc)).

Examples in your vvvv\girlpower\ directory:
* Graphics\DX9\Textures

__See also:__
* ((texturefx|TextureFX Specification))
* ((/contribution/video-effects-and-compositing-tutorials|Video Effects and Compositing Tutorials))
* ((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/5693+1584+2750+1583+2399+4175|Related Contributions))


{SPLIT}