{SPLIT()}
{img src = "20326235436.jpg" title = "VVVV与新媒体艺术创作"} 

李琨
~~~
!!!VVVV与新媒体艺术创作
(Chinese only)
本书的章节划分尽量保证了对知识点讲解的由简入繁，
各个章节之间存在一定的关联度。
为了让读者能够对每一个知识点有比较直观的体会，
作者在编写时尽量保证了在每一个小节的内容介绍完毕后，
有相应的程序应用范例。
第三章读者可以根据自己的兴趣和需要有针对性地学习相关知识点。
第四章详细介绍VVVV创作的两件互动新媒体艺术作品，
从艺术实践的角度，为读者完整描绘了
从方案设计到前期沟通、作品实施、最终实现
以及如何在艺术空间长期置放等一系列完整的艺术创作与技术流程。
第五章的高级功能涉及的知识更加复杂，
仅为读者做简要的介绍和指导，
需要读者自行选择相关知识进行深度学习。
在本书的最后，作者还提供了一些使用VVVV的编程技巧讲解。


Order the book:
*print [https://detail.tmall.com/item.htm?spm=a220o.1000855.w4004-3921166541.12.3de8e1c8AjYVfz&id=566275442271|TMALL]
{SPLIT}



{SPLIT()}
{img src = "vvvvook.png" title = "vvvvook"} 
Minoru Ito, Takuya Hoshi
 
BNN, Inc.
~~~
!!!vvvvook
!!!!A GUIDE TO VISUAL PROGRAMMING FOR PROTOTYPING
(japanese only)
なんでもできるツールキット「vvvv」の日本初の入門解説書。vvvvは様々な機能を持った〈部品〉を線で繋ぐことで、表現のアイデアを素早く形にできるビジュアルプログラミング環境のWindowsアプリケーションです。インタラクション・2D/3Dアニメーション・リアルタイムグラフィックス・オーディオビジュアル・データビジュアライゼーション・フィジカルコンピューティングなどなど、あらゆるメディアコンテンツを制作できるドイツ生まれのvvvvをぜひ体験してください。
__ [http://www.bnn.co.jp/books/6211/] __

Order the book:
*print [http://www.amazon.co.jp/dp/486100800X|Amazon]
*pdf [https://book.mynavi.jp/manatee/books/detail/id=56241|Manatee]
{SPLIT}

{SPLIT()}
{img src = "prototypinginterfaces.png" title = "Prototyping Interfaces"} 
Jan Barth, Roman Stefan Grasy, Jochen Leinberger, Mark Lukas, Markus Lorenz Schilling
 
Erschienen im Verlag Hermann Schmidt Mainz
~~~
!!!Prototyping Interfaces - Interaktives Skizzieren mit vvvv
(german only for now)
Das Buch »Prototyping Interfaces« führt Sie allgemeinverständlich in vvvv, Arduino, Tracking-Verfahren und Display-Technologien ein. Auf dieser Grundlage eröffnet es Ihnen anhand unzähliger Praxisbeispiele die Möglichkeiten des Prototyping und erschließt Ihrer Kreativität damit vollkommen neue Dimensionen.
__ [http://prototypinginterfaces.com] __

download [http://ocoire.net/PrototypingInterfaces/PrototypingInterfaces_AllPatches_latest.zip|all patches for beta31.2]

Buch bestellen:
beim Verlag [https://typografie.de/shop/prototyping-interfaces/|Hermann Schmidt Mainz]
auf [http://www.amazon.de/Prototyping-Interfaces-Interaktives-Skizzieren-vvvv/dp/3874398439|Amazon]
bei [https://shop.pimoroni.de/products/prototyping-interfaces-interaktives-skizzieren-mit-vvvv|Tinkersoup.de]
{SPLIT}

{SPLIT()}
{img src = "GenerativeGestalung-vvvv_02.png" title = "Generative Gestaltung"} 
Hartmut Bohnacker, Benedikt Groß, Julia Laub, Claudius Lazzeroni (Hrsg.)

Erschienen im Verlag Hermann Schmidt Mainz
~~~
!!!Generative Design
The book »Generative Design« describes the creation of images by using codes. An image is not created manually, but instead by translating a visual idea into a set of rules and then implementing it in a programming language. Such a program can not only create a single image but also design complete visual worlds when parameters are changed.
We, the authors, want this book to provide a solid foundation for the use of this process. The book section “Basic Principles” illustrates generative techniques in relation to four foundation areas of design: color, shape, typography, and image. The designer’s repertoire is further expanded in the section “Complex Methods” by combining a number of principles on the basis of six larger-scaled examples. In this section you will also find explanations of advanced techniques.
__ [http://www.generative-gestaltung.de] __

Note this is not exactly a book on vvvv but __most of the examples described are available as vvvv patches__, see:
* ((contribution:parasitic-design-a-vvvv-beginners-cookbook|Parasitic Design - a vvvv beginners cookbook))

Order the book:
in english
*at the publisher: [http://www.papress.com/html/book.details.page.tpl?isbn=9781616890773|Princeton Architectural Press]
*on [http://www.amazon.com/Generative-Design-Visualize-Program-Processing/dp/1616890770|Amazon]

auf deutsch
*beim Verlag [https://typografie.de/shop/generative-gestaltung/|Hermann Schmidt Mainz]
*auf [http://www.amazon.de/gp/product/3874397599?ie=UTF8&tag=genegestwebsz-21&linkCode=as2&camp=1638&creative=6742&creativeASIN=3874397599|Amazon]

en français
*sur [http://www.pyramyd-editions.com/hors-collection/livre/design-generatif-concevoir-programmer-visualiser|Pyramid Éditions]
*sur [http://www.amazon.fr/Design-g%C3%A9n%C3%A9ratif-Concevoir-programmer-visualiser/dp/2350172155/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1345550741&sr=8-2|Amazon]
{SPLIT}