{SPLIT()}

When dealing with audio in vvvv you have to choose between the nodes in the categories listed to the right.

All worlds have their advantages and drawbacks and they don’t interoperate.

Frankly speaking, vvvv is not focused on audio processing. For maximum flexibility in handling sound you'd probably want to get dirty with [http://puredata.info/|Pure Data].

~~~

*__DShow9:__ Native audio processing nodes in the DShow9 category are based on ((glossary:DirectShow)).
---
*__VAudio:__ The ((contribution:vvvv.audio-pack-alpha|VVVV.Audio pack)) gives the most flexible and transparent routing options along with strong ((glossary:VST)) and ((glossary:ASIO)) driver support.
---
*__Bass:__ Nodes of this category are based on the ((glossary:Bass)) audio library. The Bass nodes are contributed by ((user:vux)) and are coming with the ((downloads|addonpack)).
---
*__irrKlang:__ vvvv support of the [http://www.ambiera.com/irrklang/|irrKlang] 2d/3d sound library. The Irrklang node is contributed by ((user:sanch)) and is coming with the ((downloads|addonpack)).

{SPLIT}

{SPLIT()}

!Content
*((Audio File Playback|File Playback))
*((Audio Input|Input))
*((Generating sound|Generating Sound))
*((Audio Effects|Effects))
*((Audio Analysis|Analysis))
*((Audio Output|Multichannel Output))

~~~

!Related
*((ASIO))
*((VST))
*((Accessing Stereo Mix))
*((protocols#MIDI|MIDI))
*((protocols#OSC|OSC))
*((Audio Links))
*((/contributions/1353+1351+2439+1352+7934+2438+1354+1355/2579+3812+7127+2238|Audio Contributions))

{SPLIT}
