---
---
see also __((node08.workshop.DMX))__
---
---
^__this page created by ((user:kalle|kalle)). it is under heavy construction. all conventions made here are only suggestions and can of course be discussed. i'm looking forward to your contributions!__^

you may download lots of modules at __((kalle.modules.dmx|kalle.Modules.DMX))__

{maketoc}

! Modules for intelligent DMXequipment
For working with intelligent lighting equipment it is useful to have some special modules.

* __driver-nodes for DMXinterfaces__
||
''naming proposal:''|__DMX (Devices __manufacturer__)__
-
''example:''|__DMX (Devices __DMX4all__)__||
-
* __DMXfixtures__
-
These Modules combine all Parameters of a MovingLight to a spread which can be sent directly to DMXinterfaces or to DMXsimulations.
||
''naming proposal:''|__manufacturermodell __(DMXfixture)__
''example:''|__MartinMAC600 __(DMXfixture)__||

* __DMXsimulation__

These modules should simulate a MovingLight in a 3D-rendering environment.
These Modules should have a spreadable transform input for placing them in the 3Denvironment
These Modules should have a spread input which can be fed directly from the corresponding __DMXfixture__-module. 
||
''naming proposal:''|__manufacturermodell __(DMXsimulation)__
-
''example:''|__MartinMAC600 __(DMXsimulation)__||
-
* __DMXspreads__
-
These modules should generate useful spreads e.g. for chasing etc.
||
''naming proposal:''|__modulename __(DMXspreads)__
''example:''|__Audiochaser __(DMXspreads)__||

* __PanTilt__
These modules should generate special which are especially useful for controling the head-(''or mirror'') movement of several MovingLights
||
''naming proposal:''|__modulename __(PanTilt)__
-
''example:''|__SpiralCircles __(PanTilt)__||
-
* __GenericDMX__
-
Everything else for generic DMX usage
||
''naming proposal:''|__nodename __(DMX)__
''examples:''|__16bit __(DMX__Value Join)__
|__16bit __(DMX__Value Split)__||

The advantage is that all "DMX"-Modules appear near by near in the 'categorized nodelist'. 

You have several Categories (DMXfixture, DMXsimulation and DMX for generic Helpers) to choose from.
{img src = "dmxfixtures.jpg" }

{img src = "dmxtutorial.jpg" }

__variable__/__fix__







!! DMXfixtures Modules
^should combine all functions of a DMX Fixture to a spread that can be directly sent to a DMXinterface.^

Let's have a look at a typical module for a moving light:
the [http://www.glp.de/de/Produkte/Spiegelbewegte_Lichtsysteme/pocket-scan.html|Pocketscan] from [http://www.glp.de|GLP] is a very cheap movinglight (less than 300 Euro !) controlled via DMX.
It uses 7 DMXchannels and has as a special gimmick a laser pointer inside.

{img src = "glppocketscandmxdevices_2007.01.1816.10.59.jpg" }

With that ''Resample/Swapdim/count of devices ''thing inside the pocketscan module seen above you may control parameters for all units simultaneous by simply changing a value or you may benefit from vvvv's technology called ((glossary:Spreads)).
Put a Spread with a whatever slicecount onto any of the Inputpins of that pocketscan module - that ''Resample (Spreads)'' node in ''Repeat Mode'' prevents any collapsing.

A simple ''Cons (Spreads)'' combines that spreads together and feeds one of vvvv's various DMXnodes.

Note that there are other movinglights with a little more features. The [http://www.vari-lite.com/index.php?submenu=3000Spot&src=gendocs&link=Prod_3000S_Intro&category=Main|Vari-Lite VL3000 Spot] e.g. uses 28 DMXchannels and costs a little less than 10.000 Euros. 
See that module below? 
29 Inlets and 140 nodes inside...
 ||''click these images to enlarge. for technical reasons splitted into 3 images''|{img src = "varilitevl3000spotdmxfixtures_2007.03.0712.25.44.jpg" thumb}|{img src = "varilitevl3000spotdmxfixtures_2007.03.0712.26.27.jpg" thumb}|{img src = "varilitevl3000spotdmxfixtures_2007.03.0712.27.00.jpg" thumb}||

!!DMXsimulation Modules
^DMX Fixture Simulation Modules should have a DMXspread Input and a Layer Output^
{img src = "mac300sim.jpg" thumb=600}

---




!! Pan/Tilt Movement Modules
{img src = "circshaper.jpg" thumb=600}

!! DMX General Purpose Modules
16bit split
16bit join
AsValue (DMX)
AsDMX (Value)
StartAdress (DMX Boolean)

