{SPLIT()}
::{img src = "smartvvvv.jpg" }::
~~~

Here are some Bonus video Tutorials and Projects that are done by meber __((user:west|westbam))__, these tutorials will go a bit beyond the basics, but beginners will for sure learn something.

Every tutorial is already posted under the Contributions, where you can download patches and assets.

for poeple behind the great firewall of china:
http://v.youku.com/v_playlist/f7996288o1p0.html

{SPLIT}
Don't miss to check [http://www.youtube.com/user/v4tutorial|Youtube-channel: v4tutorial] by  __((user:west|westbam))__ for new tutorials and projects.

And if you have any questions, or suggestions, please send me a PM, or a message or reply on Youtube. 
__Be free to use these Tutorials and educate the world!!__

{maketoc}

!Bonus Tutorial: Arduino to vvvv, a Paper Touch Interface
In this, rather long tutorial, I will be showing you how to receive Arduino messages inside vvvv, and use those to make a basic picture rotator. 

We will create a capacitive sensor for Arduino, using a pencil and a piece of paper. Once that is done we will modify the Arduino code so we can use the Serial communication (RS232) inside vvvv to receive the messages and convert them to a simple interface to control a basic picture rotating slide show.

See the contribution for the package that has all the files here: 
((contribution:arduino-to-vvvv-a-paper-touch-interface))

{youtube:LnpQgfTomNs}

!Bonus Tutorial: The Clock part 1, Making the Clock
In this little beginners project I will show you how to make a cute little clock inside vvvv.

I will show how to make a clock and the clock hands, make them rotate using some simple maths, get the current time and covert some values to strings to show them on the renderer.

It might not look the best, but we handle a lot off different datatypes and nodes, and it is really an awesome project to follow and learn some off the basics off the powerfull vvvv software.

To download the clock I made, check this contribution page here: ((contribution:bonus-tutorial-the-clock-1-making-the-clock))

{youtube:3H0BZiCsKIc}

!Bonus Tutorial: The Clock part 2, Add Textures 
In part 2 of this beginners tutorial we will continue with our previous clock tutorial and make it nice using textures. 

The textures we are going to use are cut out from a picture of an alarm clock, found on the internet, the clock hands are separated and the clock is cleaned. Than they are saved as .png to keep transparency around the edges.

Re-using the maths we did in Part 1 we will rebuild our clock from scratch. And please wait for part 3, because than we will add a little drop shadow to the clock hands.  

Project page to Download the Patch: ((contribution:bonus-tutorial-the-clock-2-add-textures))

{youtube:ORpVWyq1ToM}

!Bonus Tutorial: The Clock part 3, Add Shadows
In the final part of this Clock project, I will show you how to use a Texture Fileture effect to add some shadows to our clock hands. I will show you how to make a texture out off a renderer with transparency.

To be able to use the Shadow filter, be sure you have installed the Addon pack.

The Trick is to give your renderer some transparency, using a setalpha (color) and setting the texture format pin, in Herr Inspector to a format that supports alpha, like A8R8G8B8.

Also be sure to set the backbuffer width and height to the correct size, otherwise you image might look ugly.

Project page to Download the Patch: ((contribution:bonus-tutorial-the-clock-3-add-shadows))

{youtube:3Rg8ZKg8wcI}

! Firmata for Arduino and vvvv
For every one who wonders what an easy way could be to master the Arduino microprocessor board, and control it with vvvv, I introduce the Firmata firmware. 

Just upload to the Firmata sketch to your Arduino and start playing with the input pins and the output pins.

I will show you Buttons, Potentio meters, Light resistors, Piezo speakers, Servo engines and an LED,

All the electronics used are the BASIC examples of Arduino.

I am just showing a modified Firmata patch from the Girlpower folder, so there is nothing to download.

Learn more about Arduino: http://www.arduino.cc/

{youtube:RQ54h88ptmc}