!0. Checklist

* Can vvvv do what you want? See the ((/propaganda|Propaganda)) page for an overview of vvvv's main capabilities and where to find info about them.
* Needs Windows 7/8/10
* 3 button mouse (recommended)

!1. Download

vvvv is available in two different forms:
* ((downloads|Beta)) - stable releases. __Production grade__
* ((/downloads/previews|Previews)) - has more features, but maybe unstable. __Don't use for production__

Take the __64bit__ version.

!2. Install
Run the installer.

If you have problems, see an illustrated ((installation|Installation Guide)) for more info.

!3. First start
Just started vvvv.exe?
* You see a __grey window__ with instructions. __Welcome to vvvv!__
* Doesn't seem to work? See ((Troubleshooting))

* Check the ((the-gui|User Interface Overview))
* Dive into ((patching|The Patching Guide)), it explains __everything__ you need to get going
* Coming from textual coding? Here is how we patch it: ((programming-concepts|Programming Concepts))

!4. Examples and tutorials
Tired to read?
Check some real examples.

__Girlpower__

* vvvv is coming with a large number of example-patches with detailed explanations for almost every topic. We call it Girlpower. Check the __/girlpower__ folder in your vvvv directory. It's a good place to start learning how to patch or get an overview of available features.

__Other resources__

* Our take on the ((books#generative-design|'Generative Design')) book examples - we call it ((/contribution/parasitic-design-a-vvvv-beginners-cookbook|'Parasitic Design Cookbook'))
* Patches from the ((books#Prototyping-Interfaces---Interaktives-Skizzieren-mit-vvvv|'Prototyping Interfaces')) book
* Check all the ((tutorials|Tutorials))
* Follow the episodes of our own [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCu-xqv-TLwv6L0An7MJJA5A|vvvvTv]
* There are [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCa8Vqigdbq5Gam_6dcGdNBw|vveekend vvorkshops] videos offered by ((user:microdee))
* The Official: ((contribution:dont panic - the noobs guide to vvvv|Don't panic - the noobs guide to vvvv))
* The Inofficial: ((contribution:illustrated guide to vvvv for newbies in computer arts|Illustrated guide to vvvv for newbies in computer arts))

!5. Documentation
The written ((Documentation)) is structured in three main parts:

* ((learning|Learning)): written and video tutorials, books...
* ((using-vvvv|Using vvvv)): all you need to know about the main features
* ((topics|Topics)): covers specific usage scenarios like: Graphics, Audio, Video, IO...

Not sure about a certain term? Try the ((/glossary|glossary)).

!6. Tons of amazing Contributions
Here is a listing of ((/contributions/|Contributions)) provided by our ever-growing community.
See the ((using-addons|Using Addons Guide)) on how to install them.

!7. Join our community!

* Share some screenshots using ((the-gui#kommunikator|the Kommunikator))
* Share your projects in the ((/blog/24+126+124|gallery section of our blog)) 
* Share your patches and plugins in ((/contributions/|the Contributions)) or ((/store|the Store))
* Follow [https://mastodon.xyz/@vvvv|vvvv on Mastodon] for latest news bits
* Subscribe to the [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCu-xqv-TLwv6L0An7MJJA5A|vvvvTv youtube channel] for tutorials, howtos and more
* Join the [https://vimeo.com/groups/vvvv/|vimeo group vvvv] for a stream of projects by fellow patchers

* Help us ((about-the-documentation|improve the documentation))
* Join or start a [https://www.meetup.com/de-DE/find/?allMeetups=false&keywords=vvvv&radius=Infinity|vvvv meetup]
* Meet real people at a [https://nodeforum.org/activities/node-forum/|NODE festival] or the [http://link-summercamp.de/|LINK summer camp] 

!8. Looking for help?

* Never hesitate to ask questions in ((/forums|the forum)) or ((/chat|the chat))
* More options here: ((howto-find-help|How To Find Help))

!9. The bigger picture

Interested in how this all began and where it is all going? Check our ((roadmap)).